= munin-mongo-collections

This project contains the munin plugin that monitors the number of documents in various collections within a database. 
The database name is configured in the munin-plugin.conf file.

== Dependencies

* Ruby 1.8+
* mongo gem

== Installation

I have tested these steps on Centos5 and Ubuntu 10.10

Follow these steps on the same server you're running your mongo instance on. 

NOTE: If running master/slave I'd recommend doing this on just *one* of the slave nodes. Do not set up this plugin on all the nodes in a replica-set/replica-pair or master/slave config, as they all will report pretty much the same data.

* Verify if you have mongo gem installed
	mpandit@mpandit-ubuntu:~$ gem list | grep mongo
	mongo (1.1.2, 1.1)
* If missing, then install with 
	gem install mongo
* Grab the plugin
	git clone git://github.com/lobster1234/munin-mongo-collections
* Make sure mongo_collections.rb is +x for owner, group and others 
        chmod +x mongo_collections.rb 
	cp mongo_collections.rb /usr/share/munin/plugins/
	ln -s /usr/share/munin/plugins/mongo_collections.rb /etc/munin/plugins/mongo_collections.rb
* Now to add the database name to the plugin configuration, do this:
        sudo vi /etc/munin/plugin-conf.d/munin-node
* Paste this to the bottom of the file
	[mongo*]
	env.dbname replace_with_your_database_name
* Save, and exit
* Restart the munin node 
	sudo /etc/init.d/munin-node restart
* Make sure the munin server is listening from this node and you should be good to go!

==Test
* You can test this by simply running the plugin on command line (replace mydb with your database name)
       export dbname=mydb 
       cd /etc/munin/plugins
       ./mongo_collections config
* You should see something like this, in this case mydb contains only 1 collection called twitter.
       twitter.label twitter
       twitter.min 0
       twitter.max 3000000
       twitter.draw LINE1
       twitter.type GAUGE
       twitter.info Number of documents in twitter
       graph_title MongoDB Collections in mydb
       graph_args --base 1000
       graph_vlabel documents
       graph_category MongoDB

==TODO
* Support discovery of databases on the node and pick up the collections in every db
* Support datbase/collection names whitelisting where only the whitelisted dbs/collections will be scanned
* Support user/password auth
* Remove dependency on running on the same node as the mongo instance.

Enjoy!

@lobster1234 on Twitter
pandit(dot)manish(at)gmail(dot)com